>> Brian Holt: Tries, tries are trees.
That's not a joke.
I said two words.
This is how you say this.
Trie, and they're implemented as trees.
Someone was being really clever,
so I had to look up.
Cuz why the hell do they call
tries the way that they do.
And the reason why is because they
make it easy to retrieve data.
And so that's why they named
this data structure a trie.
So, I'm sorry, I would try and
disambiguate this, but please stop me if
I'm being ambiguous.
>> Brian Holt: I've
heard people call them tris even though
obviously that's not the word for it.
I don't know if it's obviously,
it's obviously weird.
But yeah, just communicate.
Communicate as best as you possibly can.
So good luck, I even wrote it there,
so good luck to you.
So what is a tree?
It's a tree, LOL.
>> Brian Holt: It's specifically,
a sort of tree that is meant to make doing
things like auto complete, very quickly.
The technical term of what it's doing
is optimize for prefix searching.
So pretend that we have a whole list
of all of the biggest cities in the US,
because that's exactly
what you're gonna do.
And if I type SAN, what
are the cities that I should get back?
Well, if I type in SAN, I'm gonna expect
to see Francisco, Jose, Diego, all
the cities, Santa Barbara or Santa Monica,
all those cities that begin with SAN.
This is what tries are specifically
designed to address.
So a trie starts out with a root node.
That doesn't represent necessary anything,
it's not gonna to have any specific value
associated with it.
>> Brian Holt: Often given the value of
empty string.
It's going to have a bunch of children
node, you don't actually know how many.
In the case of the English language,
assuming everything is lowercase which you
should assume everything is lower case.
It could have up to 26 children, right?
Well, you don't know that yet, but
I assure you it's up to 26.
>> Brian Holt: So
the first root node doesn't
represent any particular thing, but
the second node will represent the first
letter of what you could be searching for.
So you could be searching for
Boston, or BO as I have down here.
The first node there is going to be B,
right?
And then, what you're gonna
do from here is we're going
to branch based on all these
different letter combinations.
So using this example, if I type in b,
I'm gonna get all the suggestions for
BA, I'm gonna get all the suggestions for
BO, all the suggestions for BI.
And it's gonna go out and basically
search for all of these potential things.
But there's no city in America that
starts with BZ, as far as I know.
Certainly not amongst the biggest ones,
so that's not going to exist.
So that's how you're going to build these
tries is that you're gonna go through and
you're going to basically separate
everything out by letters.
And you're gonna build these tries
build on these branching logics.
Why this is advantageous to you is if
I'm searching for a city, right, and
I type SAN.
I just go down, I drill down into
the trie at that particular part, and
then I just do a depth-first traversal.
And I find the top three results,
and I just return those as
the auto-complete suggestions, right?
Does that make sense?
So if I type BO here, I'm going to do
a depth traversal on both of the children.
I'm gonna get Boston, and
I'm gonna get Boise, and then I'm done.
Because those are the only
two possibilities.
>> Brian Holt: Sometimes there are chains
contained with other chains.
There's whole words
contained in other ones.
A good example is there's
a city called Salina,
and there's a city called Salinas, right?
I think this is one of
the extra credit examples, but
I just wanted to bring it up with you.
The way you handle that is,
pretend that BOST was a city,
you would just mark T as a complete word.
So that would get added to the trie,
and then it would just continue with
its depth-first traversal as well.
That's all you gotta do to handle that.
>> Brian Holt: If
someone is searching for something that
has a space in it like San Francisco,
you just represent that space as a letter.
There's nothing special about spaces
is what I'm trying to tell you.
So just insert another note
in there that's a space.
People often get confused about that.
>> Brian Holt: There
are more complicated
ways to go about this.
Like if I type Francisco,
you might reasonably expect that auto
complete would be San Fransisco as well.
The way you would do that is you would
just insert Fransisco and then once you
get to the O element you'd say actually
the complete word is San Fransisco right?
So, that works as well.
We're not doing that today
though we're just doing prefix.
Nothing more complicated than that.
>> Brian Holt: Lastly,
you can add waits to something, right?
So what's the best way of thinking about
that?
>> Brian Holt: Sometimes the order in
which things will complete in is not
necessarily the order that you want to
auto complete in.
So you want to do a certain
amount of edge waiting.
So if I type in S, I might not want to
do all the San Francisco, San Diego,
San Jose.
I might also want to like branch into
other Ss to auto-complete those,
cuz those might be better suggestions.
You would have to do some
sort of waiting or queueing.
We're not gonna do that again today,
but I just wanted to
bring that up as well with you.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: So like get the cities
closest to the user who is
using the auto-complete,
or the ones with the largest population.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
largest population is one I was thinking.
I guess you could do
it with geo-targeting.
That's just a whole other level.
[LAUGH] But I would love to see it.
That would be really cool.
>> Brian Holt: Typically these
are designed to be fast and dumb.
You just wanna suggest something.
Usually you'll get the first suggestion,
right?
Cuz usually the order that you add
things in is what's important, right?
So usually look at the top result, right?
And that's usually what you care about,
and
you just throw two other ones on there to
make you feel like you're doing something.
I don't know, but.
Yeah, you want these to be fast and
usually not necessarily complete,
if you understand what I mean, so, cool.